# React Folder Structure

Once we've made our React app, you'll see a lot of folders and files. Most of these you won't have to work with too often, but let's talk about what each of these are for.

-`node modules`: This folder is for all of the packages that we install. There are a lot, and you won't usually have to ever open this folder. Any time you install a new package, it gets added here.

-`public`: This is for assets and files that are directly accessible to the browser. Typically, this is where you'll want to put images, favicons, custom fonts, or other assets that you want to reference directly in HTML/CSS.

-`src`: Stands for 'source', this is our main folder structure. Any time you want to make a new page, function, or component, it will go in the 'src' folder. It's important to put these files in the 'src' folder, otherwise it won't be bundled together when we build and run our project.

-`index.html`: This is the file that is run when we start our React app. It has our root node, which is what everything else on our website is built from.

-`package-lock.json`: This file is generated and updated automatically by npm when installing or updating packages. It is used to lock the exact versions of dependencies installed in the project, making sure that they are consistent across different environments.

-`package.json`: This file is primarily used for managing and documenting metadata about the project, such  its name, version, author, dependencies, scripts, and other configuration details.

-`README.md`: Useful for extra information about your project intended to be read by other developers or users. Can put details about how to install your app, what technologies/dependencies it uses, or any other information you want.

-`gitignore`: You may also see a .gitignore file, which is used for making git ignore certain files. Just add the name of the file/folder you want to ignore to the .gitignore, and Git will not track changes for all of those files.